first up
um of course
who was educated at a painter uh but
quiet is a self-taught new media artist
who has made numerous well-received and
internationally exhibited video virtual
reality and video game works accompanied
by installations paintings and various
ephemera his work often deploy humorous
narratives about future dystopias to
explore what motivates us as humans to
work live and create
Jeremy was born in 1980 in Michigan
where he received his MFA in Columbia
University and his ba for Michigan State
University
he has exhibited at zubularovich
collection Phillips auction house
um Denny dimon Gallery Yours Mine and
Ours Gallery Lincoln Center the Lewis B
James uh Lewis B James uh zulong Gallery
amongst many others
um we're so excited to have Jeremy here
with us today
um enjoy the presentation we'll be back
for some conversation afterwards
okay
hello Internet and thank you gray area
for having me be part of this really
amazing lineup of artists and writers
I'm really excited to be included in
this and I hope you enjoy my
presentation here
my name is Jeremy cool yard I'm an
artist and teacher based in New York and
lately I've been making video games or
simulations and building installations
around them as my art practice
I like thinking about a lot of different
things from what it means to be human
about humor science fiction computers
surrealism aliens Anarchy Consciousness
and video games
this is my game fuzz dungeon that was
released in June and I'm gonna play
through a few levels for you here and
just sort of go off on some tangents
I've been wanting to attempt this artist
talk format for a while as opposed to
the normal slide presentation I would do
and this seemed like a really good
moment to try it out
right now I'm in the central dungeon
area of the game and these buildings
around me are all different levels that
you can go into so I'll go in this one
here
I'm gonna check out uh three or four
levels they sort of move through periods
in human history in a very loose way but
I'm going to choose some that kind of
fit with the things I want to talk about
hmm
uh probably the the main thing that I
was exploring or thinking about while
making this game was the sort of
surrealist idea of the subconscious
expressing itself through an almost
automatic World building we're doing
every day in in our heads and how that
comes out in day-to-day life but I was
taking it a little bit further trying to
like really look at those mental mental
visualizations as if they were real
in the same way when I look at something
in the physical world
you know we get such clear pictures in
our heads of things but when we try and
get them out or perform them they're
always so skewed and Goofy
you know for example something easy is
like the music I grew up listening to
it's it's in my head all the time and I
hear it so perfectly uh but the few
times I tried something like karaoke I
pick a song from the 90s or something
like that and when I try to sing it it
just it comes out in a disastrous way
you know that says more about my psyche
and shortcomings and insecurities than
the thing I'm actually trying to
reproduce
and that's what I call a fuzz dungeon
it's it's that awkward space between the
vision
um that's in your head and the thing you
do in real life is a result of that
vision
uh and I think this has broad
applications from like seeing Mickey
Mouse perfectly in your head and drawing
some like a chimeric mutant that doesn't
look anything like Mickey Mouse to
seeing like a utopian way to organize a
society and then getting something
instead like a neoliberal bureaucracy
that can't even provide basic things
like housing and Healthcare
in this level the protagonist is a
farmer whose crops end up looking uh
like and doing not what you would think
when you plant seeds the crops interact
with that Shaman there that's on its
Throne replenishing your seeds
I wasn't trying to make a real farm
by any stretch of the imagination I I
looked at a few Google images of
Neolithic farms and shamans
and after that I had an image in my head
of what sort of some sort of like
ancient mystical farm setup might look
like and and then I I put it together
based on that it passed through the fuzz
dungeon in my head and came out not
looking anything like the images that I
was looking at the reference images but
it did look like the inside of my head
after looking at those images
and you know I guess also I think it's
really funny that anyone would have a
farm inside of a cave for some reason
that reminds me of the thing that
happens when you fall asleep when you're
reading you kind of you dream sometimes
that you're still reading and it feels
so real like like you can really read
with your eyes closed the idea of
something uh feeling true is is pretty
interesting to me
um I yeah let's see
um I like this very short video game
Manifesto by a collective called Arcane
kids uh one of the bullet points from
the manifesto says that the fastest way
to the truth is through a joke
and this is something I keep in mind a
lot when I'm working I have very serious
intentions when I work but I I don't
want my stuff to be taken too seriously
I don't want to pretend that I have any
solutions or answers to anything just
questions and analogies the sense of not
being taken too seriously is something I
really like about the video game Space
video games were the first things that I
thought were beautiful before anyone
tried to teach me what beauty was
this level has a sort of Goofy and kind
of melancholic vibe
I really like that poetic term memory
Palace and you know I know it's it's a
technique to help us remember things by
by visualizing them in your head but I I
wanted to make an actual sort of Palace
or tower for Nostalgia instead of memory
you know which is sort of funny because
nostalgic being nostalgic is is not
something we need help with but
remembering things correctly definitely
is
see
um this this kind of interior mental
World building that we're doing it's
you know I think in part to protect us
from reality and to keep us comfortable
to some extent sometimes we don't want
to remember things as they really happen
it's hard to see other things and
ourselves too as they really are or work
maybe maybe it's interesting to to
knowingly Embrace that sometimes or at
least laugh about it instead of
suppressing it
in some footnote in the that book
atrocity exhibition by J.G Ballard he he
says about our Notions of conventional
reality that it's an artificial
construct which serves the limited
Ambitions of our central nervous system
I think uh in that particular moment he
was talking about like LSD and drugs and
how those can be ways of expanding
Notions of reality and you know that's
cool and interesting
um but I I'm also thinking here like
maybe in addition to that I can explore
inside myself how reality gets
constructed in the first place and
really try to take a look at that in
some sort of visceral way
[Music]
and you know when I was in art school I
studied painting and the first few years
of learning to draw and paint I I was
just studying how to better see things
in the real world so that I could
recreate them
uh before I learned to draw that's
something that I really didn't
understand and that simple fact I think
opened up a lot of creative potential
when I learned it to be a good drawer
you have to spend thousands of hours
staring at things and reproducing them
in charcoal or paint
and and the more you learn to see that
the better artists you become and then
that extends to all things like seeing
patterns in human behavior to see new
ideas and Trends or pull up old ones and
make new things around them and then the
better artists you become and the more
clearly you see things and the less fuzz
there is
but but sometimes I don't know I like
the fuzz I at least I find it
interesting I think it reveals a lot
about us as humans
sometimes maybe it's good to not try too
hard to become a good artist in some
ways or to like maybe like unlearn your
training or at least use it in a way you
didn't realize you could use it before
like expand on it maybe it reminds us
that art isn't about having definite
answers to anything and it's more so
just about making analogies and
reminding us life is is really pretty
weird and confusing and no one actually
knows what's going on but that in itself
is is pretty interesting sometimes it's
it's really hard and also sometimes it's
really funny
all right in this project and in my more
recent ones rather than look at things
uh in the outside world
I wanted to look at the world that I
built up in inside my head and really
try to reproduce some of that
not just the ideas but but really like
the Visions like really looking at them
in the same way that I looked at figures
and figure drawing class or something
like that
yeah one uh one major inspiration for
this was William Blake
he did something that I think is kind of
similar he claimed to easily be able to
summon Spirits from the past and see
them so his friend commissioned him to
draw those Spirits he has this this set
of drawings called Visionary heads that
are these haunting portraits of
historical and mythological figures that
look sort of like half human half dream
entity or something like that he would
summon these spirits and draw them in
the middle of the night with his friend
and those are probably my favorite
drawings of all time
you know almost everything in this
cosmology here comes from a similar
space it feels sort of like I'm
summoning it in a weird sort of like
techno updated way as to how Blake did
it uh well modeling everything for this
I I would open up zbrush it's a 3D
sculpting program and sort of like
doodle with it and just kind of
intuitively make creatures that lived in
my head but also partially lived in the
software like they were what zbrush
wanted me to make I I always feel like
I'm sort of collaborating with this
software I think there's a sort of
ideology inside software I don't like it
when people refer to it as just a tool
you know software it's millions and
millions of lines of code written by
large groups of workers and it's so much
more complex and multifaceted
and something like zbrush isn't made for
any uh anyone in the same way that a
hammer is you know
the most obvious difference being that
it's totally unaffordable and most
people myself included have to Pirate it
to use it I'd be surprised if anyone at
zbrush could name a living contemporary
artist and I think a lot of people who
who use zbrush have a fundamentally
different idea or definition as to what
artists than
than you know it's mostly for large
Animation Studios product designers and
stuff like that
wants things to be very like clay-like
and symmetrical so the things I make in
there they end up looking like
amalgamations of 90s cartoons and video
game characters but kind of grimy and
ugly looking I don't have a team of
people working with me I do all this on
my own and I have to work quickly so
these are you know sort of like the
spirits or ghosts that haunt my
subconscious in the same way that
William Blake Drew Kings and figures
from European history that haunted him
all right so a lot of levels in this
game the character takes on different
forms so I'll show you this level where
she's a colored pencil drawing playing
some sports game with a Neolithic cyborg
with a few different actors on different
levels to read some short stories I
wrote so I think when I go to this one
right here I'll let this one I'll let
the story kind of play out shut up for a
minute
[Music]
an independent journalist opened up a
document on his computer and began to
compose his next podcast he decided the
theme would be about the Sanka betsu
brown bear incident in Japan in 1915. a
group of settlers in Hokkaido were
attacked by a giant brown bear that was
rudely awoken from its hibernation the
journalists decided to decide with the
bear and began a long diatribe about
Marxist economics Environmental
Conservation lack of sleep 24 7 consumer
technology colonization and the video
game ghosts of tsushima he purchased
some royalty-free piano music set to a
hip-hop beat that he would use in the
intro while getting a cup of coffee in
his kitchen before recording the
journalist noticed an old yam on his
microwave that was growing large in
magenta-colored fractal Roots he also
saw a cockroach in a glue trap that was
still alive his little antennas we're
moving around it didn't seem scared it
just seemed like it was thinking looks
like I'm stuck here and I'm going to die
this blue smells pretty good the
journalist asked the Cockroach if it
feared death after a few seconds of
thought the Cockroach said that it did
not believe in death once its body
starts working its Consciousness would
reconnect with universal cockroach
Consciousness then parts of it would
combine into a new cockroach Eagle that
would implant itself into a baby
cockroach that would be born behind the
German sink
foreign
[Music]
so I guess that yeah that was a story I
was kind of inspired by all the
cockroaches in my apartment during the
pandemic we could not get exterminators
to come in the building for like a year
um so oh my God they're everywhere every
time I opened a drawer
um all right so I think
the last level I'll go to is right here
this is actually
um this is my apartment where I'm
actually sitting and recording right now
so one bedroom in Jackson Heights queens
and I'll let this monologue go on for a
minute until my girlfriend went to visit
her family in California and I closed
all the curtains and stayed home for two
weeks
it was the longest I'd ever been totally
alone
during the day I made a perfectly scaled
3D model of my living room
at night I smoke weed and plain
Counter-Strike and System Shock and
watched old kung fu movies
most things I like haven't changed much
since I was a teenager
I feel most comfortable mentally living
in the time period when I came of age
most of my dreams still happen in the
house where I grew up
my psychological growth is stilted just
my gut keeps growing when I get drinks
with friends they tell me I should do
therapy
I told my mom I'm a communist and she
told me I need to do therapy
the world feels like it's falling apart
it feels like everyone is losing
interest
why do I have to do therapy
CEOs should do therapy people who own us
and multiple properties across the world
should do therapy
everyone I know is starting a family or
leaving town or busy with success
I have a really good teaching job where
I work like two days a week for eight
months out of the year I'm too old to
have a kid or switch careers now
I don't really know what I'm doing with
my life
um yeah I like this fake quote that gets
thrown around a lot on the internet and
in books that says there are other
worlds but they're in this one some
attributed to the French poet Paula I
don't know uh to me it's a handy
expression that keeps me a little
grounded while building out these worlds
yeah I I also I have I have a lot of
trouble getting into stuff that's more
fantasy than sci-fi I guess like Star
Wars or Harry Potter or all the comic
book movies I feel like there's just
like nothing to grab onto or relate to
to me and the characters and places just
seem so like perfect more like they were
made and a marketing meeting rather than
by an artist or a group of artists it
seems really obvious to say but I feel
like I always need to remind myself that
everything around me it didn't just come
out of nowhere you know the computer I'm
on the software that's running it the
internet as I was saying about zbrush
um you know I mean the stuff was made by
large self-interested corporations and a
lot of the core features and protocols
were funded and developed by the US
military it's always so wild to me that
the first thing we did with a digital
computer was run atomic bomb simulations
and figure out how to decimate hundreds
and thousands of people instantly and
then just a few decades later we were
using that same core technology to do
cheesy special effects in Hollywood
movies I mean it's you know it's an
absolutely insane space to make Arden
when you step step back and think about
it it's it's just so wild that when you
use it to build out your worlds to
totally ignore that uh in in the world
you're building it just seems like too
intentional or something seems weird
thing to do
even the materiality of digital art is
so strange you know I think it's easy to
feel the art made on a computer as a
material but that couldn't be further
from the truth I I don't know for sure
but it seems like a digital video on
YouTube or Vimeo or something uses more
energy and space than in an oil painting
you know it has little teeny physical
spaces all over the world and giant
climatized warehouses rather than one
place on a wall somewhere
and for me this is important to not lose
track of the materiality of what I do
when I'm on a computer our material
conditions are what shape our thoughts
right I mean the exterior World Builds
on the interior one it's not the other
way around
I always try to remember that you know a
few great men don't influence our
actions and thoughts I don't I don't
think any solutions or answers to
anything come from a single person
almost ever you know it's our Collective
material conditions that shape us and a
few terrible men have have robbed and
pillaged most of that at this point for
themselves and love buying up almost the
entire media infrastructure to make sure
that the last thing that any should be
on anyone's mind is redistreating their
wealth
I don't know that's almost certainly
what needs to happen but it almost
certainly will not anytime soon
unfortunately and you know none of us
want the world that we have but we just
keep participating in it this confusion
and absurdity it drives my work a lot
and it's always coming out in the
cosmologies I'm making
I think a large percentage of people
would say that the society we've built
up is not so great for most who live in
it you know but we just keep doing the
same thing over and over and we can't
stop it's pretty fascinating
okay a definition of humans I like is
from that book sapiens
um it it says that What Makes Us unique
what enables us to group in larger
numbers than any other species is our
ability to believe in things that are
not real like money you know money is
not real we all just agree that it is
and it holds incredibly strong power
over us corporations and governments and
nation states those aren't real either
you know
would be amazing if we could start
having new options for stuff to believe
in because the current things are really
really
boring destructive and benefit a very
small percentage of people I hope my
work in any tiny way can nudge Us in New
Directions of belief
maybe just to believe that we can do
things differently and things can be
more exciting and inclusive and weird
you know
[Music]
so uh I think I think this is a good
spot to stop this game it's on Steam if
you have a gaming PC it's just four
bucks there's still a ton more to
explore the whole thing takes a few
hours to finish and also there's a
simulation component that can just run
forever so
anyway uh thanks so much for checking
this out and thanks again gray area here
are the credits just let those roam for
a minute and I will see you later thank
you so much
[Music]
hey everybody welcome back
um we're live with Jeremy who just gave
us a wonderful tour through his game of
fuzz dungeon which is currently
available on itch.io I dropped some
links in the chat you can go to itch.io
and search fuzz dungeon it'll come right
up
um and it's it definitely absorbs a
couple of my Friday nights this summer
um Jeremy what so this is you know this
is a Monumental project I mean any game
work is a Monumental project yeah it is
you know I'm wondering you know in your
process how do you get started in
creating these worlds I mean I wouldn't
even know where to to begin
well it always starts with different
ideas I had such a different idea for
this project originally I
I really liked I liked that I guess like
almost poetically I like that term um
Dungeon Crawler you know
um but or like roguelike Dungeon Crawler
or whatever but I don't even like those
games I just liked that term so I was
like I want to make one of those but
it'll be like way different uh but then
as I got into it it just totally went in
a million other directions like that
that character flip in the game she used
to be able to like crawl around and do
all this other stuff but it's just like
it it just wasn't working and it changed
around a lot and honestly I don't know
it just ended up being sort of like
about my time during this pandemic I'm
not in a direct way but just in a sort
of indirect way just different thoughts
and things that were happening during
that like period of sort of isolation
and stuff
I think it's super interesting also the
connection that you make with World
building generally speaking but also but
how you approach architecture I think
there's a lot of uh yeah of conversation
in regards to the space itself and how
you represent and move within these
space and I think a lot of metaphors can
be seen there and I just kept on
thinking about this uh quote by JW my
Mitchell I think who at some point
during the early 90s said something like
um
the internet is the first Contender of
architecture uh because it's probably
one of the first spaces new spaces let's
say that you are
um in a way creating new other spaces
that in any other way you'll be building
through architecture but I kept on
thinking how that was in Parts true but
then in part it was not true because of
course video games already did that
perhaps not as expanded as we can
understand the internet doing this but I
would I just wanted to hear your
thoughts on that on how this connects
also with these other ways of creating
or making a space for something because
yeah it's not let's say of course when
we think about video games we think
about
playing right we think about this action
or I don't know like this this
connection very specifically to one area
of activity however video games and
being and living and exchanging through
video games is not only writing as such
so yeah I wanted to hear your thoughts
yeah I think definitely for me uh video
games
aren't so much about playing it's just
exploring and I like that you you bring
up architecture I mean I can't even
pretend to know really anything about
architecture
um but I do know about you know what
it's like to inhabit a space and what
it's like to feel in a space I I
remember it like I guess when you were
asking that question one thing I thought
of is like some of my earliest memories
as like a kid in realizing that the
world is weird or just doesn't make
sense or something I was thinking like
why why don't we have like ball pits and
slides and like stuff and like fireman
polls in our homes like those are so
much more fun than other things
um and I was like really troubled by
that like why why does it why don't
adults do that it's so much better
um and so I guess like the cool thing is
once you start to get into these game
engines is you can actually build those
worlds that that you wanted that are
kind of like absurd but fun I but it's
it's playful in that regard yeah but
it's like I nothing in my games has like
I mean there's like high scores but it's
like a joke it's almost like sometimes I
think in my games as analogies of games
instead of actual games almost
um where it's just you're really just
like exploring these spaces
yeah and that feels really true in your
games mechanically I mean there's so
much the the yeah there are there are
like mini games and high scores I mean
we saw the soccer you know we saw the
kind of soccer game being played
um and but there's never the the score
never adds up to anything or anything it
makes sense for you and through that it
it then that it's an interesting
metaphor you know as you as you would
strive for these numbers or to complete
the task or X Y and Z like that really
just becomes a vehicle for experiencing
the story of vehicle to push you to
explore
um in different ways
um and I'm wondering you know you talk a
lot about absurdity and how that is a
way that helps you to understand the
world around us and we were talking the
other day you know about how right now
is such an absurd Time in the World
um and there's so you know you're you
know your your work really captures this
feeling of Confusion And disillusionment
um really being felt by by a lot of
people right now I'm wondering you know
in that what do you want players to take
away from your games you know I after
they play that
um you know beyond just imparting your
own you know your experience and kind of
musing on some of these things like how
do you want to to make them feel
ideally
I mean
maybe this is a little hyperbolic but
I just want people to feel that they had
an experience you know like not as
intense as when you're coming down off
like mushrooms or something like that
that's a little bit much but just some
sort of like feeling that like oh my
gosh like I just went through a thing
maybe more like like when you wake up
from a weird dream like something like
that you know
um and to just realized or just like
have a notion that oh a reminder I guess
that life is so much weirder than than
we act like it is on a day-to-day basis
you know like we get so caught up in
so many done things throughout the day
that don't really matter you know and
just and I'd like people to come away
just
kind of laughing about that I guess you
know
um and and I always like one thing I
think that's important to me is
I'm trained as an artist I have a
master's degree in art but then I'm in
this game space and I think both those
worlds kind of need each other or like
could use more of each other I guess
um I think sometimes the art World takes
itself way too seriously which makes it
kind of like boring and uh
it's it makes it harder that for a lot
of people to access you know a lot of
people feel very intimidated by it which
which is terrible because there's so
many amazing artists that I think
anybody could enjoy and then games
have a really different definition of
art period and like how art functions in
the world I think
there's for me anyway like from what I
learned in school and stuff from
Matthew Rich who was one of my mentors
he has a thing definition of art I
really like that it's an analogical
space where you recreate old ideas uh
recuperate old ideas or generate new
ones right and so it's like
that's to me what art is it's a it's an
analogical space but I think people in
games their definition of art is
essentially like design or something you
know like if you go on Art station where
game game artists are there's like ogres
and you know hunk Wizards like you know
it's like to me that's that's really
cool but I don't know what analogies
they're making or new ideas are coming
out of it and so I think you know the
game Space could use a bit more of that
to make it more interesting
um
so yeah I think I went off on a tangent
I don't know
well I think it makes a lot of sense and
especially now I think that there's a
very powerful I have no area of
exploration when we talk about the
Absurd as well and these I don't know
it's a it's a particular scenario I
suppose but
at least for the past 10 years we've
lived through a series of I don't know
like absurd situations over and over and
over and over and over and he feels he's
just a chain of the Absurd yeah pouring
out of whatever and um and I just keep
on thinking about how sometimes in order
for us to actually try and imagine
something that feels uh necessary to I
don't know to
end a situation that urgently needs to
be a rethought or restructured I think
that sometimes the Absurd can be
probably the only place that allows us
to do that because it feels full of
possibility I guess and that's such a
good point I love that yeah I love
talking about the Absurd and you all
have the these things on your face
I think very seriously right right
that's so perfect
and um I mean I don't know well at first
my first question that was in regards to
architecture and you were saying like
well I don't know much about
architecture well for me it's very funny
because I I did a VA in architecture so
yeah
architecture and probably you know what
I uh what at some point connected me to
the world of of the Arts let's say
generally speaking was actually these
spaces of possibility to just you know
one day wonder what would happen if
someone that's not an architect was
using AutoCAD for doing other things for
instance like what other interesting
stuff can be done with these tools
because they're already there and you
know it's quite plain and quite boring
and of course I can do floor plans with
these for the rest of my life but what
else can we do with that and I think
that sometimes
it feels like we have a lot of tools but
just not
the I don't know sometimes
the impulse or I know the the
General push for us to wonder what would
happen if we use that in a different way
and I think that in your work we could
definitely see that like this is
yeah I think that's that's yeah that's
what I'm trying to think about and and
why I love using these game engines that
like fortnite this the game engine I use
is Unreal Engine and it's they
essentially create it for fortnite right
which is like a billions and billions of
dollar game and I love that it's open
source and like anyone can use it and
totally just mess around with it
um and do this weird kind of stuff that
maybe it wasn't meant to to be used for
or like certainly I don't think anybody
at like you know epic games or whatever
cares about this stuff or like knows or
wants to know what it is you know I
don't know
um but yeah I don't there is we're in a
such an interesting moment where
maybe we're in like some sort of new
Dark Age I I don't know or like our
imagination is
really
suffering now or something I like we're
on iPhone 13 and PlayStation 5 like how
many more iterations of these things are
we gonna have as just yeah and like I
don't know yeah I'll stop there
was one thread of your work that I think
you know particularly speaks to me
um is there's a lot of really heavy
critique of
you know capitalist modes of extraction
of corporate work environments of
expectations for Laborers
um for instance in fuzz dungeon there's
a level of the game where you're kind of
falling through levels of this Factory
or you know kind but it's like a
corporate it's like a corporate Factory
like producing corporate workers sort of
I mean that maybe that's the wrong way
to describe it and you kind of the
there's an audio piece that kind of
talks about the relationship between
labor and artistic production and value
um and so I'm wondering if you could
speak a little bit on those points and
you know what kind of things you're
you're trying to wrestle against uh in
this work
yeah that that particular level I was
just thinking about
um the types of like entertainment I
consume and I was like wondering why I
like those things so much and a lot of
times you know it's embarrassing but I
you know whatever a lot of those stuff I
watch is just comedies about men who
refuse to grow up you know it's like
it's just Trailer Park Boys uh what I
forget what I mentioned and there's some
movie where just about some dumb guy
um because like maybe in part these
these shows
have these people that would rather just
be like Petty criminals than have their
labor be exploited in some shitty job
and there's something like appealing but
kind of like funny about that
um
and like and also
I like thinking about
um
there's this thing David Graber was
saying in some article on bullying it
it's a it's a quote that just really
sticks with me where he's like
when when we talk to someone and tell
them you should like have ideas and
morals
um we say be Humane right like be Humane
treat people kindly but then when we
fail to live up to those things we say
oh I'm only human so it's like uh you
know to be a human being is to like have
ideals but also to fail to fail to live
up to them so like that's another thing
I think about a lot is like I do I have
all these ideals but you know I also
live in this world and I have to like
pay rent and stuff and and to do that I
essentially have to fail to live up to
my ideals uh which is like absurd and
like uh a fairly frustrating thing you
know but
yeah and then and then they're making
the art you're trying to find some way
to have both those things but it's It's
Tricky and it's it's never precise or
like I could never the I pretend that
yeah I I'm totally perfect or anything
like that if that does that answer your
question yeah I think so okay
no it's I think you know that to me you
know
I think that your your game speak to me
in their absurdity because you know the
the idea that I sit at a computer in one
place and I type words to people all day
you know like that's absurd to me like
that's such a crazy thing and there's so
much about like the mundanity of
mundanity is that a word of the
mundaness of Our Lives
um that is just crazy and it just kind
of Never Fails to like shock me that you
know people are willing to do the things
that they they do in order to survive
um yeah or have to do the things that
they do in order to start maybe they
don't want to do them I mean there's
um and I'm just wondering you know we've
kind of touched on this but just to go
in a little bit deeper I really want to
understand you know how you use
absurdity as a vehicle to understand
these kind of incomprehensible truths or
feelings about you know what it's what
it's like to be human
[Music]
um
I mean I I don't know can you elaborate
a little more I uh yeah yeah I mean you
know because it when I play your games
it really feels like you know like you
said you're asking a lot of questions
and it really feels like you're trying
to get to the bottom of something in a
lot of ways like you're wrestling with
these things that are confusing and wild
and just bizarre and hard to wrap your
head around
um and
I I you know I was you know I wanted to
just get some input on like you know how
like what the result is for you from
this kind of exploration of the Absurd
like how by like thinking about these
things by activating these different
thoughts for instance in the show and in
the in the piece of diorama there's a
quote that says can you imagine Karl
Marx sitting on the toilet taking a
and looking at Reddit on his phone
um and these are just these like you
know moments that are just hilarious and
like weird to think about but that
somehow capture a feeling really well
um and it's I I don't know I I feel like
there's something that must be
generative from that for you and I want
to know if I don't know it's that sound
yeah I mean
yeah I guess one thing that comes to
mind uh from your question is like
you know a big part of me is materialist
right like I'm you know communist or
whatever like I'm very Progressive I
guess you know but but then another part
of me is like well I want to be also
spiritual which is the opposite of that
and like an idealist and that's like
completely opposite of those those
things so I guess in making art I'm I'm
grappling a little bit with like trying
to find a way to be spiritual and trying
to find a way to like
real like think about what else life
could be other than just physical matter
like there's got to be more to it right
that's we can't possibly understand
everything that's going on because it's
just so bizarre
and so I guess in a way it's it's a
little bit spiritual if that makes sense
so I think I come out of it with that
with trying to like
just remind myself about the life is
very mysterious and strange I mean you
know Homo sapiens what we've been around
for a little 250 000 years or something
like that and we've only been making art
for like not even you know what a
quarter of that maybe
um and we've had like social media
accounts for 0.001 of it like you know
our minds
are not at all made for this this world
and it's just so I'm just trying to find
a way to live in it and like make sense
of it and and have some sort of uh peace
with it I guess I don't know of course
just like think about other things that
other possibilities which is important I
think we have to find new things to
believe in like I was saying and that's
probably going to come out of these
weird experiences
I find it very interesting that you
connect with the spiritual part through
through this whole conversation because
I kept on thinking about the this term
technology Shamanism as seen through the
lens of Latin American artists and
researchers and particularly through
fabiani and me about his
um who well she has these very very
heavy uh research in regards to techno
Shamanism in Brazil and one of the
things that I at some point I read that
really struck me was when she was
comparing
um the ways in which uh certain people
within certain indigenous communities
were understanding
um the internet particularly the
internet so there was this part where
she said something like well
the first thing that came up within this
conversation was that connecting to the
internet was a sort of ritual so it was
pretty much a very uh similar thing to
doing a shamanic ritual where you would
disconnect from your body
um to connect with the consciousness of
other people that might be present in
the nearby let's say space but then also
that can be present within other areas
whether that be geographically speaking
or within time right so it is sort of
like a time travel teleportation sort of
experience and uh when she was having
this conversation with uh several
shamans from these indigenous
communities they were like well it's
it's very similar because what you are
doing is that you are connecting through
a device this artifact
um which way do you have this sort of
ritual where you would connect with
other Consciousness that are not
necessarily right in front of you
physically but that you can't get
through or talk with or share with
through this device right and I thought
that just blew my mind because I had
never really thought about it in that
way and for them in that sense it was a
very spiritual way of connecting with
others right I mean of course it depends
on how we use the internet right but
um
but I think that this notion of yeah
it's sort of like a ritual that you do
and you connect with other Consciousness
uh Consciousness
um through these sort of ritual where
you get well not necessarily read of
your body but you disconnect from the
usual way that you would connect with
others and I think that is something
that is very powerful and definitely
ties very closely with with what we were
talking talking about because it sounds
at some point very I know like magical
and at some point even a bit absurd if
you were living before the internet and
you had no idea that this was coming but
now is something that is just absolutely
normal you know part of you know our
daily lives or right right you know at
least within this conversation and um
and it still sounds crazy when you
describe it with other words oh yeah for
sure yeah yeah it sounds like mystical
almost yeah for sure yeah yeah
absolutely yeah yeah yeah and I like
this
idea of Consciousness and just thinking
about what Consciousness is I think
that's probably the more spiritual side
of what I think about when I do this
stuff and just this idea I really like
um this book um
by this this uh psychiatrist I think
Julian James uh and he writes a lot
about the or like what he thinks is the
origins of Consciousness but he thinks
Consciousness that we develop
Consciousness as we know it Now by uh
metaphors like we have this like
metaphorical self of of who we are in
our head we have metaphors that are
essentially like language right and like
when we we start learning to say like
this is like that in a sense our
Consciousness expands right and like I
see it like in my niece right now like
she can't speak yet and she's slowly
starting to learn like compare things
right and develop a sense of herself and
maybe that's why to the extent we don't
have memories too when we're that young
because we have no language and no
capacity for metaphor and so like the
more we're able to say this is like that
the more our Consciousness can expand
maybe it's a cool idea I don't know and
so and then our that's why art can be so
spiritual and important because it's a
way for our Consciousness to expand the
more comparisons we make to things maybe
the better we can see and and grow
Jeremy that's such amazing advice to end
onward just about out of time
um
thank you so much for being here
for sharing your you know your inner
psyche with us through these games yeah
again folks these are not works you can
look at they're works you have to
experience interact with so please head
to Jeremy's itch account um and check
them out you can also go to new art City
newart.city show slash diorama to see
the special uh presentation that Jeremy
made pulling pieces from various games
to give us a unique a unique window into
his work for for our show so thank you
so much Jeremy well thank you Wade and
Dorian is super meaningful to be a part
of this awesome job
so happy well you better get well Jeremy
like I need more games like let's talk
later because you know I have I've got
time on my hands and I've got games to
play so I know oh my gosh I'm like yeah
I'm already a year and into my next one
it'll probably be another year at least
oh well we're looking forward to seeing
what what you think
thank you all so much looking forward
for the next talks too